Thank you, thank you.
It's been a long day.
How are you guys doing?
Everybody okay?
Excellent.
So today's going to be a really great
session for those of you who are
either new to the platform or have
been here a long time and want to see
what's happening on the Cocoa side.
We've got two really great people.
We have Matthew Formica,
who is a developer
technical support engineer,
and we have Tina Huang,
who is an application framework engineer,
and they're both going to talk to you
about why you should be using Cocoa and
how cool you can do things with it.
So let's start with Matthew.
Thank you, Jason.
We are going to get right
into the material here today.
What we're going to talk
about today is what Cocoa is.
Some of you may be here, as Jason said,
for the first time.
You're not really familiar with Cocoa,
although you may have
already heard about it.
We're also going to talk about
what some of the benefits of
Cocoa are for you as a developer,
and how you can use it in a
variety of application settings,
and we'll have some demos along the way.
So let's dive right in.
What is Cocoa?
Well, what we like to say is
that Cocoa is a powerful,
full-featured, easy-to-use,
object-oriented framework
for Mac OS X development.
And that's kind of a mouthful,
but basically it means more rapid
productivity for you as a developer,
thanks to its object-oriented
underpinnings.
And we believe at Apple that it is,
in fact, the fastest way to full-featured
applications on Mac OS X.
This is an architecture diagram
illustrating some of the
layers that make up Mac OS X.
At the bottom is Darwin, the Unix layer.
On top of that sits some
graphics technologies,
Quartz, OpenGL, and QuickTime,
and then a layer of frameworks.
These are the layers that your
applications will typically write to,
such things as Java, Carbon, and Cocoa.
And what we're going to
focus in on today is Cocoa.
We talk about Cocoa as
this one monolithic thing,
but when we drill down a bit,
we see that there are really two
core frameworks that make it up,
Foundation and AppKit.
The way this works is like so.
Foundation is where the
non-graphical user interface
components of Cocoa reside.
Such things as strings and networking,
scripting,
and file system calls reside here.
If you're writing an application
that doesn't use a user interface,
you could just link against Foundation,
and you'd be set.
However, if you do want to use a
graphical user interface,
you'll want to add in AppKit.
AppKit contains classes for
controls and windows and other
things that do use a user interface
as part of the application.
We can actually go beyond this.
Besides these two core
object-oriented frameworks,
Foundation and AppKit,
there are a variety of other pieces
of the system that work together to
make the Cocoa experience what it is.
These include things like
our development tools.
Project Builder and our
newly introduced Xcode,
along with Interface Builder and
the performance tools on the system,
all have features carefully
designed for Cocoa development.
On top of this,
we have powerful and dynamic
languages that provide the
support to make Cocoa possible.
Objective C and Java.
All of these work together to
help you write code faster.
The framework APIs are mature,
they've been around for a long time,
and they've been designed
from the ground up with an
object-oriented approach in mind.
Besides this,
they leverage Objective-C and
the dynamic runtime that it
provides in a few different ways.
Objective-C and Cocoa code
are weakly typed,
and so they allow you to reuse more code
because the code you write will tend to
be more generic right out of the box.
In addition, there isn't a need for such
complexities as templates,
often a source of confusion in C++.
Objective-C and the dynamic
runtime also enable you to create
more effective shared frameworks.
You don't have application
binary interface issues like
you might with other languages,
and you can extend base
classes without breaking
applications that depend on them.
And thirdly,
we have this concept of categories.
This is a language feature
which is very powerful.
You can add methods to existing classes
without having the source code do them.
So, for example, if you write, say,
a program that's a million lines of code,
and you use our
Unicode-compliant string class,
NSString, throughout that code,
and then discover there's one more
method you wish all strings in your
program could take advantage of,
you don't have to go and replace
your use of NSString with a subclass.
Simply add a category to
NSString and add that method.
Very powerful.
And all of this adds up to help you be
faster to market with your products.
You can spend your time developing
your application's unique features
instead of reinventing the wheel.
and enables you to write less code.
Cocoa keeps simple things simple
and makes complex things possible.
It raises the baseline for
the code that you write,
so you're writing your
application's unique portion.
In addition,
your application can automatically
get new features over time
without recompiling or reshipping.
Thanks to the dynamic nature of
Objective-C and the Cocoa runtime,
your application can take advantage
of features as soon as they
appear in the operating system.
They just automatically show up.
And so we've been talking a lot about the
languages that are used up to this point,
so I want to focus in on that just a bit.
There are really two languages that
are supported for Cocoa development:
Objective-C and Java.
I'm sure you all know what Java is,
so I'll focus on Objective-C here.
It's actually a language that
was invented in the '80s and
is today a standard part of
the Free Software Foundation's
GCC distribution.
And it's a very dynamic language,
and along with Java,
provides the support that Cocoa needs.
In addition, if you're writing in Cocoa,
you can plug in your Carbon C or
C++ code right into these languages.
Or if you have Unix code,
they integrate in as well.
So that still leaves the question open,
which language should you use?
And really the answer is,
use the language that fits your needs.
You may find that you have existing
Java code or libraries that
you want to take advantage of,
or you may have code out in the community
that you want to take advantage of.
If so, you may find that writing your
application in Java using the
Cocoa APIs is the best road for you.
On the other hand,
most developers find that the
faster runtime performance and lower
memory overhead of Objective-C make
it the language of choice.
We'll focus in on Objective-C today.
With that, I'd like to turn things
over to my associate,
Tina, to talk a little bit about some
of the details of how you actually
go about programming in Cocoa.
Thank you very much, Matt.
Once again, my name is Tina Huang,
and I am one of the
Cocoa Frameworks engineers.
So basically what I'll be talking to you
about in this section is three things.
First, we're going to cover some of the
fundamentals of Objective-C syntax.
Then we're going to go over some of
the various Cocoa design patterns.
And finally,
we're going to talk about some
of the various developer tools
we have for you on the system.
So in order to illustrate
some of these concepts,
we're going to take a look at
this simple to-do list example.
And in particular,
we're going to focus on adding a
preferences pane to this to-do list.
And for those of you interested,
later on in the talk,
Matt's going to come back on stage
and actually show you how you
can integrate this preferences
pane into a Carbon application.
So let's just jump right in and
take a look at Objective-C syntax.
Here's a copy of valid Objective-C code.
Here is a function that converts
from Celsius to Fahrenheit,
and it probably looks very
familiar to a lot of you.
Well, that is because Objective-C is
a strict superset of ANSI C.
So all your old ANSI C code from your
old apps is still valid Objective-C code.
So you don't always have to look
at Objective-C for your answers.
However, Objective-C does provide a few
additions on top of ANSI C.
The first is we wanted Objective-C to
have an object-oriented
layer on top of strict C.
So this included having new
syntax to define new types of
classes and to actually deal
with those different objects.
And most importantly,
we wanted the ability to send
messages to these objects.
In Objective-C,
one of the very unique things
about it is we pass messages to
objects rather than invoke methods.
And this means that the actual code
that's executed is determined at runtime.
So in order to do this,
we needed new syntax to send messages,
and we needed runtime
support for these messages,
and finally, we needed various data
types for these messages.
So let's just jump right in and
look at some messaging syntax.
So for those of you familiar
with any other object-oriented
language like Java or C++,
you might be used to a method
called looking something like this.
So here you're sending a
do-something method to my object.
Well, in Objective-C,
each message begins and ends
with a set of square brackets.
To the right of the opening bracket,
you have the receiving object,
and to the right of that,
you'll see the do-something message.
So here is a complete
Objective-C message.
Now you can also have a message
that takes any number of arguments.
So in a traditional
object-oriented language,
you would have something like this,
which is an ordered list of arguments.
Now in Objective-C,
we have something new that we
refer to as name parameters.
So it looks something like this.
You begin, once again,
with your receiving object,
and then to the right of that,
we're going to have
the do with this colon,
end this colon message.
The colons are part of the message name.
And to the right of that,
you will see the various
parameters that you pass in.
And you have one parameter
to the right of each colon.
So this is how you pass
messages in Objective-C.
Now, some of you may wonder,
why would we want to do
this name parameters?
Well, in short,
this generally just improves
the readability of your code.
In this case, it's pretty obvious,
the two objects that
you're trying to send.
But you can imagine a case where
you have an initializer that you're
taking in 10 different arguments.
Now, granted,
the Java method of just having 10
arguments in a list might seem shorter.
However,
you can imagine that you might start
confusing which argument goes where,
and having the name parameters
can actually be very useful.
So let's take a look once
again at these messages,
but let's focus particularly
on the parts in orange.
So the part of the message independent
of the parameters is referred to
as the selector of the message.
And you can actually programmatically
access this part of the message using
what we call the atSelector syntax.
Now you may wonder,
why might I want this?
Well, this allows you to access a
message independent of the
receiving object's type.
And what makes this really
powerful is the fact that
at runtime and compile time,
the type of the receiving object does
not necessarily have to be known.
And this is because Objective-C is
a dynamically typed language.
The type of the object is
actually determined at runtime.
And so we have this generic ID object
that can represent any object type.
And you're actually allowed to
query the object at runtime and
ask it what class it is and what
methods are available to it.
And so you can actually use this message,
the response to selector message,
in order to find out first if an object
does actually accept this message,
and then if it does, send it the message.
So now that we've looked at some of
the specifics of Objective-C syntax,
let's step back a second and take a look
at some generic Cocoa design patterns.
And the first one that we want to talk
about right now is memory management.
So Cocoa uses something
called reference counting.
Basically, when you retain an object,
this increments your reference count.
When you release the object,
you decrement the count.
And we have something called
auto-releasing that decrements
it at some later point.
And an object is freed whenever
the reference count drops to zero.
And so there are a few rules to
the memory management contract.
The first being, only creation methods,
and this is init, copy, and new,
will actually return retained objects.
And in all other cases,
the receiver is responsible for retaining
the object when it first gets it,
and releasing it when it's done.
and once again,
an object is deallocated once
the retain count drops to,
there are no remaining references,
and the retain count drops to zero.
So now we're going to look at another
Cocoa-specific design pattern.
And this is actually going to deal
with communicating with the interface.
So you can imagine
that in your interface,
you have some element in your UI,
and you want it to basically
effect change on your application.
So first, when we're talking about that,
we use something called target action.
And so you can imagine you have
a button in your application,
and the user clicks this button.
So what happens?
Well, essentially,
this sends some sort of
button-clicked action message
to whatever your controlling
object in your application is.
And we refer to this controlling
object as the outlet of the action.
Now, in Converse,
what if you have your application
and you want it to actually drive the
UI and update changes in your interface?
Well, to do this,
we use something referred to as outlets.
So here we have the same controlling
object as before in your application,
but you also have some sort of
text field in your interface.
And essentially,
you want your controlling object
to pass some sort of message
to this text field and say,
set the text field's value
to be whatever the string is.
And in order to do this,
you basically need a handle
from your controlling object
that ties it to the text field.
And so in order to do this,
you set the text field as a
controlling object's outlet.
So for many of you,
this whole communication with
the interface may seem very
reminiscent of something,
a general software design pattern
called Model-View-Controller.
So for those of you who have
never heard of this before,
Model View Controller essentially
divides application into three layers.
At the very bottom, you have the model,
which is what stores and
manipulates all your user data.
At the very top of it,
you would have the view,
which is everything the user
sees and interacts with.
And somewhere in the middle
is actually this controller,
which is the glue that ties the
model and the view together.
And so to tie this back with some
of the earlier design patterns
of target action and outlets,
let's take a look once
again at our button.
So the button is part of the view,
and when the button is clicked,
it sends an action message,
but that object that it would
send the message to is referred
to as the controlling object.
So that is your controller.
And this controller, in turn,
would send the message to the
model and tell it to update.
So in this case, it would tell the model,
well, create a new folder.
And this is really important
because now you have the user
interface isolated from the view.
And so you can make changes to your
interface and not have to modify--
user interface and not have to
modify your model in return,
and vice versa.
And most of your application-specific
code is now isolated in
the controller object.
And you can imagine the reverse of this
is if something changes in the model,
and that would cause a message to
be sent to your controlling object,
and then that would cause the UI to
update through the use of an outlet.
And in order to do this,
we actually have this really neat
developer tool called Interface Builder.
Interface Builder essentially
allows you to have this easy,
quick, drag-and-drop graphical
manipulation of your UI.
And so it's very easy to develop your
user interface to your application.
Unlike most other interface tools
that essentially just spew out some
source code to represent your view,
what Interface Builder does
is actually very unique.
It archives live objects and
also archives their connections.
And these connections are the target
action connections and the outlet
connections that we just referred to.
And finally,
it's completely integrated with Cocoa.
From the day that Cocoa was built,
essentially we had Interface Builder,
and the two of them
are built up together.
So it's not like we have this old
developer tool and we have this new
builder that just kind of does the
same thing that writes more code.
It's really there to help you
and make coding easier for you.
So in order to show you some of,
we want to now show you some of
the coolness of Interface Builder.
So,
Interface Builder creates and archives
your files in this nib format.
And so,
here's my project with my to-do list,
and I'm going to take
a look at that file.
So here is basically a view
of what is in your nib file.
And so you have your main window and
various other properties of your nib
that we'll go into in a little bit.
Up here you'll see that there
is your-- a palette of controls
that you have available to you.
And finally,
we have the Inspector window,
which allows you to see the different
properties of your controls.
And so if you're trying to build
something like this Preferences pane,
you can start with, like,
over here we have a text view,
and you can just drag it over here.
And notice that these
blue grid lines drop up.
Well, these are basically guidelines to
help you meet the Aqua specifications.
So even if you have no idea how to design
a view that meets Apple's criteria,
all you can do is follow these
lines and you can make an app that
looks like all other Macintosh apps.
And so now we can do the same
by dragging out a checkbox.
And over here in the Inspector window,
you can see there's a title, and we can
You can set the title to be
something like Show Completed Items.
And you can drag it out to
be whatever size you want.
I can just drag out some radio buttons.
And you can see here that you
can change the number of rows.
And adjust it once again.
Notice how easy the Aqua guidelines
make it to adjust the spacing.
And if you click on each of the items,
you can set the values.
And so we'll make that one red.
And we can make that one blue.
will make this black.
And finally,
we'll add a button to the bottom.
And we'll tell this one
to clear the to-do list.
And once again,
notice how easy it is to adjust your UI.
And so, since Interface Builder actually
deals with live objects,
you can do something that we
refer to from the File menu.
You can choose Test Interface.
And this actually lets you play with
the interface as it would really work.
So you can see how the checkboxes
check and the radio buttons click,
and click on various buttons.
So now that we have our UI,
we need to control our object.
And Interface Builder actually
allows you to do that.
So in our NibFile viewer here,
we have a tab that shows--
a tab labeled Classes.
And this essentially has all the
objects that that NibFile knows about.
So in this case,
it's all of the AppKit objects
and any objects that you
specifically tell the Nib about.
We're going to subclass NSObject because
that's the most basic of the objects.
And when you hit Enter,
it gives you a subclass,
and we can name it PrefsController.
And here's a PrefsController object.
And I, that shouldn't already be created,
but essentially here you have
We're going to call it MyObject
here since I've apparently
messed up my demo here and have
a prefsctl object instantiated.
So let's say you have an
object called MyObject.
And in the Inspector window,
you can see that you can create
outlets and actions right
here in Interface Builder.
So let's add some outlets.
So we want an outlet to
represent the color button.
And we can add an outlet for
the Show Completed button.
And finally,
we can add an outlet for the title field.
You can do the same for Actions.
So we'll have an action
to clear the list.
And we'll have an
action to set the color.
And finally,
an action to set whether or not
you want to show completed items.
So once you have that,
then you can create the files,
have Interface Builder create
the outlines for-- outline
template for these files.
So we look at my object,
and in the Classes menu,
you can tell it to create
files for my object.
And here it'll tell you-- you can
choose to create both the header
and the implementation file,
and tell it, put it in my project.
Now, if you go back to
Project Builder and look at it,
you'll see that it's created
these two files for you.
So, if you take a look at them,
Notice that no behavioral source
code is generated for you.
And the advantage of this is really that
once you create your view and your model,
you can actually just change the
positionings of your view and change
the way it behaves and not have
to change your code necessarily.
And the same happens
for your header files.
So let's go back to Interface Builder.
And so each Nib file has to be loaded
by some object of a particular class.
And by default, it's NSApplication.
But you can actually set
this in Interface Builder
through the files owner.
So every Nib file has a files owner.
And you can actually, in the inspector,
you can tell it,
show me the custom class.
And as you can see,
this is NS application.
Well, in this case,
we're going to set it to be myObject.
And here it gives you a warning
saying that you're changing the
files owner from application,
and that's OK.
Now you have a way to essentially
hook up your controller to your view.
So the way that that's done,
and once again, remember the slide with
the target in action,
you basically want to connect
your controller to the items,
the controls in your UI.
And so, for instance,
let's take a look at this
clear to-do list button,
and you essentially want that button to
send an action to the controller object.
So you would hit Control and drag from
that button to the controller object,
and you could say, "Clear list.
That's the action I want to
happen." And you could say,
"Connect." And you can do the
same for the various buttons.
[Transcript missing]
and Tyler to set the show completed.
Now again,
the converse of that is what happens
when you want your controller object
to have access to your UI elements.
Well, you want your controller
object to be able to send
messages to controls in your UI.
So you control drag in that direction.
So you control drag from
the controlling object
to an element, a control in your UI,
and you can say,
that is my setCompletedButton,
so set that outlet.
And you can do the same for
The Color Button,
and we'll want to set the title field.
And that's basically how easy
it is to hook up from your
UI to your control object.
So, for sake of time,
we're actually going to jump to
We've polished up the UI for you a bit,
and we have actual
controller code implemented,
because obviously when that
action message gets sent,
something has to happen.
And we're going to build
and run that for you.
Hi, this.
And so here you can see, if I go to File,
the demo, and open up the preferences,
let's first create a few items.
[Transcript missing]
and I are going to show you
how to create a full-featured,
next-generation desktop
application on Mac OS X.
So there's one more
thing we want to do here,
and that is we want to be able to type
in the to-do list title and actually
have it update in the to-do list.
Well, using that target action pattern,
we can have some sort of apply button
that will tell the title list to be set,
but there's a better way to do that,
because we want to have an
actual live update from...
The Preferences Pane to
the Actual To-Do List.
And let's actually go
back to slides here.
In order to do this,
we use something referred
to as delegation.
And this essentially allows
an object to appoint another
object to be its delegate.
So what is delegation?
Well, let's think of it in
a non-coding fashion.
We have my boss,
and he's about to go on vacation.
So he essentially appoints
Matt to be-- he says,
Matt, I want you to be my delegate.
So all messages that would go
to my boss will now go to Matt.
And so now I'm like,
I want to go on vacation.
And normally I would say,
hey-- I'd ask my boss,
can I go on vacation?
But obviously he's not there.
So that message now gets
forwarded to his delegate,
who in this case is Matt.
And Matt says, sure, Tina,
go on vacation,
because he's a good buddy of mine.
So this is delegation.
So in Cocoa, we actually have two basic
behaviors that Delicate can perform.
The first is,
the delegate can actually modify
the default behavior of the object.
And the second is,
it can just be a receiver
of notifications.
So whenever an object
performs a certain event,
the delegate can just be notified
that this event has occurred.
And so there are several classes in
AppKit that have a delegate outlet.
And when you set this delegate outlet,
essentially the delegate will be asked,
hey,
is it OK if I do this particular action?
Or the delegate could just be
notified that something has happened.
And so, for instance,
if you have some sort of
text field in this case,
the delegate may be asked questions like,
is this a valid value for my text field?
And, for instance,
if you want the text field to
only accept numeric values,
you can adjust the behavior accordingly.
And in another instance,
you can just want to know, well,
the text is about to change.
And so the delegate can just be notified
that the text is about to change.
to be changed.
And so essentially what this allows
is you can customize an object
without having to subclass it.
So let's take a look at how this works.
So we're going to go
back to our Nib file.
And if you look at the text view,
Notice that it has an outlet
called its delegate outlet.
And so you can control
drag from the text view,
to the files owner,
which is the prefs controller, and say,
"Make this my delegate."
and Yudal get set.
And so let's take a look at
the code that was necessary,
that is necessary to make this change.
So let's take a look at
the press controller.
And what you want to see here is
this TextedChangeDelegate method.
And essentially this is called
whenever the text changes.
And so here we're going to
tell the title field to set its
font and set its string value,
and then update the window.
And so now if we build and run this.
Too many windows here.
So now if you open the Prefs pane.
When you change, type the text,
so I could say this is, you know, like,
my shopping list or something,
notice that it live
updates on your to-do list.
And so delegation is
a very powerful tool.
and I will be talking about
the basic design pattern
that Cocoa allows you to do.
So there's one more thing.
We want to be able to set
the font of this to-do list.
And in order to do this,
we need something that's slightly
different from this general
target action design pattern that
we've shown you up to this point.
And the main reason for this is, well,
a font panel that you've
probably seen before on OS X,
it can affect any number of views.
And so it's targets essentially
determined on the fly.
And so let's go back to slides here.
And so in order to do this,
we use something called
the responder chain.
And this allows us to determine what
our target is at any given moment.
And so the responders chain is
essentially an ordered list of
objects that responds to user
events or events in general.
And this means that the target
can be determined at runtime.
In particular,
the first object in this responder chain
is referred to as the first responder,
and that's the actual object
that will receive the event.
And so the Responder chain
is used in various places.
For example, cut, copy, and paste.
You click on one text view, and you say,
copy this text.
And then you click on some
other text view somewhere else,
and you say, paste.
And so First Responder allows us
to track what your main window
is and determine that new view is
where I want the text to be pasted.
Also for menu item validation,
you can validate menu items
depending on where you're clicking.
and once again,
you can use this for things such
as font panel and color panel.
And so let's show you how that works.
So essentially, right now we're going to
look at this other nib file,
which I haven't shown
you up to this point,
but this essentially is the main
window of your to-do list application.
Let's clean out some of these windows.
So this is the main view
of your application.
And in here, though, you'll notice that
there's this main menu.
And this is essentially the menu bar
that is associated with the application.
And so in your controls palette,
you have a bunch of menus
that you can add to it.
And in this case,
we're going to add a fonts menu.
And notice you can have
a whole array of things.
You can show the font panel, bold,
underlining, things like that.
So let's save this.
[Transcript missing]
Notice here that we now have a Fonts
menu in our To-Do List application.
And you can just say Show Fonts,
and the Font panel comes up.
And so let's take a
look at our preferences.
And so here,
I want to emphasize that's my list,
so I can make the font really big.
It's probably a little bit too big.
- Hello, everyone.
I'm Tina Huang,
and I'm the C++ developer at Cocoa.
and I will just make
it all 36-point font.
Essentially what you see here is that
whatever view I have currently selected,
You can now have the font panel
affect that particular view,
and that's because this text
field here is the first responder.
Can we go back to slides, please?
And so that's essentially
Cocoa in a nutshell.
You know, we don't expect you to be
full-fledged Cocoa programmers
by any means at this point,
but hopefully you have a
general understanding of,
you know,
the various powers that Cocoa provides,
and you'll understand enough about
Cocoa syntax to hopefully participate
in some of the other talks that we have
available for you later this week in the
Cocoa track and learn more about Cocoa.
So I'm now going to pass this
back to Matt to talk to you about
how to integrate this preferences
pane in a Carbon context.
Thanks, Tina.
So this next part is actually one
of my favorite parts about Cocoa.
It's something I think is really cool.
And that's how you can integrate
Cocoa with other technologies.
You can certainly use Cocoa to build
full-featured applications with Mac OS X.
But a relatively newer development
is the ability to integrate
Cocoa with Carbon and even Unix code.
You can mix Cocoa code right in
with your existing C and C++ code,
and we're going to show you
how to do that today and
why you would want to do it,
and then walk you through a demo.
So why mix Carbon and Cocoa?
Well, there are three basic reasons.
First of all, you may have existing code
that you want to leverage.
This is typically the most common
reason for integrating Carbon and Cocoa.
There's an app that exists in Carbon,
and you want to add some
functionality using Cocoa.
The second reason why you might
want to do this is if you're writing
a common service that perhaps
applications written with Carbon or
Cocoa could take advantage of.
For example,
the address book framework on
Mac OS X actually vends APIs in
both C and Objective-C for
both of these frameworks.
And finally,
there may be various pieces of
alternative functionality that
you find easiest to access through
one framework or the other,
and so you want to integrate
those in one application.
So what does this involve?
Well, it basically involves
just adding the code,
whether it's Carbon or Cocoa,
to the same source file.
Go ahead and include Carbon.h or Cocoa.h,
or both.
The other thing you'll want to do if
you're including Objective-C code in your
existing C or C++ source files is change
the file extension to .m to indicate
that Objective-C code will be included.
If you're also including
C++ in the same code,
you'll want to change the extension to
.mm to indicate that our other compiler,
the Objective C++ compiler,
should be used.
This technology allows all
languages to coexist in the same
source file and be compiled.
If you have source files that you expect
to be compiled on other platforms where
perhaps Objective-C doesn't exist,
and yet you want the code to
just kind of go through smoothly,
you can use the #ifdef objc syntax.
And that basically says,
if this is defined,
then we're compiling using a compiler
that understands Objective-C.
and you can also force the right compiler
to be used on files without having to
change the file extension if you choose.
So besides compiler support
and source code support,
the operating system has support
for mixing Carbon in Cocoa as well.
The OS itself provides what we call
toll-free bridging of common data
types between foundation in Cocoa and
the core foundation framework.
Such data types as CFString and
NSString can be simply
cast one to the other.
In fact, they're the same object.
And there are actually two main
levels of integration between
Carbon and Cocoa that we support.
Prior to Mac OS X version 10.2,
we supported non-GUI integration.
So you could have, for example,
Carbon or Cocoa code that
dealt with the file system,
and then have the interface be
designed using the other set of APIs.
We changed this in Mac OS X version 10.2.
We now support mixing the graphical
user interface on a per-window basis,
which means you can have a
Carbon window in a Cocoa application,
or a Cocoa window in
a Carbon application.
And the one thing to keep in mind is that
you'll want to call this one function,
NSApplicationLoad,
to initialize Cocoa if you're using
Cocoa within a Carbon application.
So we've got a kind of nifty
little demo here to show you guys.
You may be familiar with
the Glypha 3 code base.
It's been around since 1988, 15 years.
It was written by John Calhoun
of Glider fame for the Macintosh.
And today, it's fully carbonized and
lives on sourceforge.net,
where the source can be downloaded.
So let's show you this game.
If we can switch to the demo machine.
Tina's going to create--
start a new game.
It's basically a joust clone.
And the source code is available.
You basically sail around on your bird,
trying to knock sphinxes
out of the air in,
I guess,
some sort of an Egyptian pyramid.
And she's going to try and get
on the high score list here.
This code was Pascal black
and white back in the day,
and then it was
retrofitted to C and color,
and various technologies
were added over the years.
It was finally carbonized.
I remember playing this
on my Performa 600,
33 megahertz, back in the day.
So she's dive-bombing into the lava.
There's actually a mummy hand on
the left-hand side that comes up and
grabs you if you're not effective.
So here's the high-score dialogue,
and actually,
given the history of this code
base and its Pascal string,
ANSI string usage, all we can enter is
English at this point.
We're going to retrofit this to
be able to support more languages.
We could do this in Carbon.
We're going to do it in Cocoa.
We could imagine we would want
to add other technologies to
this using Cocoa down the road.
So she enters her name.
We get the high-score list.
She's number one.
And now, let's take a look at some
of the architectural changes
we're going to make to this.
So we could go back to slides, please.
There are two things
we're going to change.
We're going to add a
preference panel using Cocoa,
similar to what Tina illustrated earlier.
And then we're also going to change the
high score name entry dialog to be Cocoa.
So before the integration,
what does this code look like?
It's basically six source files.
It's straight C.
It includes a kind of basic
sprite engine and sound engine.
It was something that John Calhoun
actually used to learn how to
program through the years as he
was working on Glider for the Mac.
It includes high score lists
and other preference code.
It saves all these out manually
using its own data structure,
which it then stores out.
We're going to change that a little bit.
We're going to go more towards the
model-view-controller approach that
Tina illustrated and access some
of this through a preferences model
instead of directly to the struct.
And we've taken the liberty of making
some Carbon modifications to the
code before stepping in with Cocoa.
Basically,
what we've done is replaced the
Pascal strings with CFStrings to finally
support Unicode and other languages.
This enables easy data
transfer to NSStrings.
As I mentioned earlier,
we can simply cast the CFString to
an NSString or vice versa.
So let's go look at the other
Cocoa changes we've made to this code.
The first thing to notice looking at
the files here is that we've changed the
extension on main from main.c to main.m.
This indicates that we'll be including
Objective-C source in this file.
And if we open it up,
we can look at the code that
actually handles preferences.
When we load preferences,
we pound ifdef obc, this code,
just in case we were to
compile it on another platform.
I'm not quite sure why
we'd want to do that here,
but it illustrates the point.
And what we can see is that we're calling
NSApplicationLoad to initialize Cocoa.
And finally,
we create a new prefs model object and
initialize it with a preferences data
structure that Glypha 3 natively uses.
So that loads in preferences
when the game starts up.
Then when the preferences menu
item is chosen in the game,
we need to actually go and create
this new Cocoa preferences panel.
Once again,
we carefully conditionalize our code,
and then what we call is
NSBundle's LoadNibNamed method.
And this actually takes a nib name
as its parameter and basically
loads up our preference panel,
which it then displays on the screen.
Let's take a look at that
preferences panel now.
Here it is.
It should look very similar
to what Tina showed earlier.
And we've made just a couple of changes.
You'll notice a Show Fonts button here.
And what that's for is, basically,
we can't add a fonts menu to a
Carbon resource manager-based menu bar.
So we've added a fonts button here
to actually show that font panel.
Other than that, it's basically the same.
From a Carbon perspective,
we don't have to know anything
about how checkboxes and
radio buttons are implemented.
All we need to do is write
the code that gets run when
these controls are triggered.
Speaking of which,
let's go look at the setSound method now.
Here we go.
This code is fairly straightforward.
It basically gets the
state of the checkbox,
and if it's on, it turns on the sound.
If it's off, it turns off the sound.
And then it synchronizes the model.
Pretty simple.
Now let's take a look at the other
nib in this game that we've added,
which is our new high score entry dialog.
And it looks very similar to
the Carbon one we showed before,
as it should.
So let's take a look at the
code that loads this nib.
Once again,
we allocate a new controller object
and then call loadNibNamed to actually
load this high-score entry dialog.
So those are the changes we've made.
Let's run the app now and see how this
new retrofitted version of Glypho3 works.
So we actually have a
preferences panel now,
which we can pull up.
So this is a Cocoa window
running in a Carbon application
that's been around for 15 years.
We can go and change the
name of the high score list.
We can pick a different
font while we're at it.
Let's pick something a
little more Egyptian,
like Papyrus or something.
Make it a little bigger, maybe.
And sound is on, so okay, good.
So let's close those windows,
and actually Tina will go
and play a new game again.
If you download this from SourceForge,
play it all day,
I was pretty good at one time.
She's made it to the high
score list at this point.
I think she's just going
to take her lucky now.
died a gruesome death,
and now she can enter her name,
but we're not limited to English anymore.
We can actually have Tina go
enter her name in Chinese.
thanks to the power of end-to-end Unicode
support through NSString and CFString,
her name is displayed now in Chinese.
Let's go back to slides.
So what have we learned today?
Well, we've learned that thanks to
the object-oriented and very
dynamic frameworks in Cocoa,
your development can be faster.
We've also learned that the
Cocoa fundamentals really
aren't that hard to learn,
and Objective-C is really not that bad.
And finally,
we've learned that you can integrate
Cocoa into your existing applications or
build whole new applications using Cocoa.
At this point, I'll turn things back
over to Jason for wrap-up.
Thank you, Matt.
Thank you, Tina.
[Transcript missing]